eight medical staff diagnosed with a ccp
virus in one of Harbin city's main
hospitals an exclusive recording
obtained by NTD reveals the poor
practices leading up to it
a missing citizen journalist in China
has reappeared in a new video but many
are questioning if he is truly okay now
a new French reports delves into
concerns surrounding the Wuhan p4 lab
pointing out troubling patterns through
the years pressure is mounting in the UK
as many urged the country to rethink its
relationship with a Chinese regime we
take a deep dive into the UK's economic
ties to China and see where things might
be heading admits this pandemic and more
European markets reporting defective
personal protective equipment or PPE
coming from China find out the impact
it's having on medical staff welcome to
China InFocus I'm Tiffany Mayer there's
speculation that the Wuhan Institute of
ayala ji could be the origin of the CCP
virus it's a p4 lab the highest
biosafety level Radio France
investigated how France helped China to
build a lab in 2004 but was then
excluded from the project the idea was
to fight infectious diseases together
but the move caused concern in France
the article said China refused to tell
France what happened to the mobile p3
laboratories that were funded by French
government after the SARS epidemic in
China's lack of transparency made the
French uneasy so some in the French
government thought problems would also
come with a p4 lab project in 2015
France gave up its co-chairmanship
position on the Commission that
supervised the p4 lab describing the lab
as a very Chinese tool and 2017 France
announced that 50 French researchers
would reside there for five years but
this didn't happen in the end no reason
was given the Washington Post reported
in January 2018 that the American
Embassy visited the lab and saw was
studying back coronaviruses they said
the lab security measures were
insufficient and alerted Washington
lead Joha Chinese citizen journalist
posted a video on social media on April
22nd
it's his first video since going missing
in Wuhan nearly two months ago he went
to Wuhan in February to report on what
he saw there On February 26 he was
arrested by police in his latest video
he described what happened to him since
then he first was traced by a car of
unknown people he posted this live on
social media he was then taken away by
police and accused of disrupting public
order he stayed overnight at the police
station
over the course of those 24 hours I sat
on an iron stool and talked to many
different police officers the police
then told him that he will not be
punished but because he had been in a
virus hot spot he had to be quarantined
in Wuhan for 14 days once he arrived at
the quarantine his phone and electronic
devices were taken away she you know
your son's how unchain yo shall we make
it don't know how human in poor Li
didn't criticize the authorities in the
video one that is in commenting this
video looks like a hostage reading a
manuscript but as long as you're safe
it's good Sweden's second largest city
gutenberg is canceling its sister city
relationship with shanghai the two have
been tied for 34 years
it comes after sweden shut down all
Confucius Institutes in the country the
first European state to do so there's a
new movement growing in Italy of people
wanting to sue the Chinese regime for
the pandemic an online petition just
launched lets Italians affected by the
virus seek compensation from Beijing the
head of the organization behind the
movement won Europe estimates over
500,000 will sign and the compensation
sought could exceed 100 billion euros in
a popular hotel and the Italian Alps is
also suing China for damages
it says China failed to inform the w-h-o
in a timely manner
causing the pandemic to spiral out of
control
the hotel was fully booked for the ski
season
but suffered devastating losses as all
hotels were forced to close on March
12th this follows lawsuits from India
and some US states British think-tank
Henry Jackson Society published a 44
page report analyzing the legal basis
for suing Beijing over the virus and
China announced today it will give
another 30 million dollars to the w-h-o
this comes just days after President
Trump said the US would freeze funding
the US was the organisation's biggest
contributor giving a whopping 893
million dollars between 2018 and 2019
China gave 86 million dollars over the
same time period China's state-run media
recently announced eight medical staff
were diagnosed with the CCP virus at one
of the main hospitals in Harbin city an
exclusive recording obtained by NTD
reveals poor management practices could
be facilitating the rapid spread of the
virus in hospitals NTD Xuan Rong has the
details a report published by Chinese
state-run media on April 22nd said to
doctors and six nurses were diagnosed
with the virus at a major hospital in
Harbin city more than 200 medical staff
from the hospital were under observation
and quarantine centers around 190 others
were sent home to self quarantine only
about 130 remained working in the
hospital the same hospital announced two
days earlier it would not take any more
new patients because of recent virus
infections at the hospital NTD obtained
an exclusive internal recording of a
meeting among medical staff at that
hospital earlier this month the tape
revealed an emergency patient at herb
ins other main hospital was transferred
to the respiratory ward and later
diagnosed with the CCP virus staff at
the meeting added this person infected
patients in that department as well as
medical staff a family member of one of
Harbin hospital staff told us Harbin
city in Heilongjiang Province officials
have been terrified since they were held
accountable for the virus spreading the
officials push that pressure onto the
community
and started treating her being like a
second wuhan it's hard to live now
they were sealing our doors even if they
don't seal our doors we don't dare to go
out the people see us as poison they're
all afraid mr. Shaw's wife works in the
cafeteria at a hospital in Harbin
Stalley district she's been quarantined
for seven or eight days in the hospital
even though her nucleic acid test came
back negative
now mr. Chou is also being forced to
quarantine at home the authorities pad
locked his front door from the outside
the house is sealed to prevent me from
going out my daughter brings me
groceries I call her and she passes it
to me through the window similarly video
circulating online appear to show
residential areas and Harbin forced into
lockdown some netizens are angry about
the way the regime handled the lockdown
saying they don't treat people like
people locking them inside what if they
got sick what if a fire broke out
medicine said the history of Wuhan is
now repeating in Harbin state media
reported that one man spread the virus
to 78 people from Harbin other cities in
Heilongjiang Province as well as people
from other provinces reporting by Xuan
Wang and TV news the UK is among the
hardest hit places in this pandemic and
it's Prime Minister is the first head of
state to contract the virus today we
take a deep dive into the UK's economic
ties with China and see where things
might be heading admits this pandemic
voices are rising in the UK urging its
government to rethink its ties to China
the calls come over the regime's
mishandling of the pandemic but there's
no doubt week we kind of business as
usual after this crisis and we'll have
to ask the hard questions about how it
came about and how it couldn't have been
stopped earlier just five years ago then
Prime Minister David Cameron declared
the beginning of a golden era for the UK
China relationship so this visit marks
the start of a new era some have called
it a golden era in relations between
Britain and China in 2015 the UK threw a
lavish welcome for the Chinese regime's
leader Xi Jinping
Ameren even took she out for a pint by
the end of she's visit the two countries
signed over sixty billion dollars worth
of deals under Cameron and then Finance
Minister George Osborne the UK left its
door wide open for Chinese money and
pushed for closer economic ties
there is no economy in the West that is
as open to Chinese investment as the
United Kingdom you know we we welcome
Chinese investment there is huge amounts
of Chinese investment coming into
Britain at the moment indeed we're
attracting more investment than Germany
France and Italy put together into the
UK the flagship UK project funded by
Chinese investment was a new nuclear
power station at Hinkley Point in
southwest England Chinese state-owned
company China general nuclear power
group or cgn took a 1/3 stake in the 28
billion dollar plant which was built by
a French group which creates in a model
where we can attract Chinese investment
into civil nuclear power in return cgn
was allowed to build and operate its own
facility at another site the project was
highly controversial one of the main
risks handing some control over critical
British infrastructure to China when
former UK Prime Minister Theresa May
took over the project was put on hold
for review though it was eventually
given the greenlight but last year new
questions emerged about CG ends
involvement when the company was
blacklisted by the US Commerce
Department for attempting to steal
nuclear technology Chinese investment in
the UK covers many areas from the famous
London black cabs to Heathrow Airport
from Barclays Bank to Thames Water but
it's most often focused in the energy
sector Chinese investment peaked in 2017
reaching twenty billion dollars in
comparison the Netherlands received less
than four billion and Germany less than
two billion in the same year
aside from investment trade between
Britain and China also doubled within a
decade and where the UK now out of the
European Union Downing Street is free to
hammer out a new trade deal with China
our ambition is for more trade not less
trade
and China clearly shares this ambition
some UK officials have said the country
is China's best partner in the West it
was the first Western country to become
a founding member of the AII be short
for Asian infrastructure investment bank
launched in 2016 the china-led 50
billion dollar project was designed to
provide infrastructure funds in Asia
it's considered a rival to World Bank
and the existing Asian Development Bank
a US backed institution the UK's move to
join anger the US as Washington has
raised concerns about the new banks
management and lending standards u.s.
officials saw establishing the new bank
as an extension of Beijing's soft power
contrasting her predecessors eagerness
to join the a IIb Teresa may was
reluctant to endorse another of the
Chinese regimes projects the belt and
road initiative the massive
infrastructure project is said to
include over 70 countries and cover more
than two-thirds of the world's
population belton road is a cornerstone
of the Chinese Communist Party's
aggressive foreign policy goals and
expansionist goals that comment comes
from a US Senate hearing about the
initiative last year critics also say it
will trap poor countries in debt despite
ongoing concerns current Prime Minister
Boris Johnson has expressed great
interest in the initiative we are very
enthusiastic about the belton Road
initiative we're very interested in in
the
what my present she is doing and the
most recent example of the UK's deep
economic ties to China the country's
decision to open the 5g market to
Chinese telecom giant hallway hallway
has been operating in the UK for two
decades and it's a major supplier to
Britain's biggest telecom company BT the
relationship was investigated in 2012
over potential security concerns
hallways now widely reported as having
close links to the communist regime and
there's not only a legal requirement
there's deep financial investment you
have senior leaders in these companies
that are tied to the Chinese Communist
Party we think that it's not about a
technical backdoor they have the front
door
despite the us's repeated warnings
Johnson says government decided in
January to include hallway in the
rollout of the country's 5g networks
with a market share cap of 35 percent
last year shortly before he was chosen
as prime minister Boris Johnson told a
Chinese language TV station that he
would be pro-china but now anger is
rising at the Chinese regime for its
handling of the pandemic Johnson is
under increasing pressure to reassess
the Chinese regimes position as a
trusted partner and last week the chair
of the Foreign Affairs Committee warned
that those helping Beijing to target
British businesses would face scrutiny
this after the UK government stopped a
Chinese company's attempt to take over a
British chip maker it's the same group
that tried to buy American chip maker
lattice before the deal was stopped by
President Trump in 2017 and Europe a
scarcity of personal protective
equipment is making some hospitals and
businesses turned to imported items from
China sometimes at their own peril our
France correspondent David vivaz has the
story at Wallin Vega says she never
knows what will happen when she opens a
box of masks she works as a nurse in a
Paris hospital as with other hospitals
in France some of the masks come from
China
sometimes the masks elastic just breaks
at the moment we put them on where the
metal clip doesn't fit the nose SEMA 30
defective personal protective equipment
or PPE imported from China continues to
flood the European market Spain on
Wednesday said it was seeking a full
fund four 640,000 virus test kits from
Chinese company bio easy after returning
a second faulty batch meant to replace
the first companies specialized in
sourcing masked warned of Chinese
companies using questionable business
practices to attract buyers from Europe
some Chinese companies fake certificates
that they use to sell their merchandise
to make it look like the items are up to
European and American standards when
there are not NTD contacted vvr
international a company with 20 years
experience sourcing high standard PPEs
in china we're currently working on more
than 70 cases i can say only 10% of them
mid european and american standards but
that doesn't seem to discourage some
buyers some people rather get poor
quality masks than no masks at all i can
understand that it's a very tense
situation according to the European
safety Federation which monitors the
quality of imported PPEs more European
companies are turning to mask producers
in their own continent reporting by
David vivaz NTD news Paris a u.s.
lawmaker is voicing concern that Chinese
drones used to enforce social distancing
measures are a threat to national
security the Chinese company that makes
them is backed by the communist regime
US lawmakers and experts have concerns
over the Chinese made drones making
their way into police and fire
departments across the u.s. they suspect
a potential national security threat
because the devices can send data back
to China the world's largest consumer
drone manufacturer DJI sent 100 of its
drones to 22 States police used the
drones to enforce social distancing
guidelines but federal agencies have
already flagged the Chinese company
suspecting it of sending data to the
Chinese communist regime the drones can
record critical infrastructure into law
enforcement data the agencies warned
against the use of these drones some
even wanting to outright ban them
senator Rick Scott called the situation
crazy on Twitter he wrote that the
Chinese Communist Party was responsible
for the spread of the virus and now to
help combat the viruses spread
drones from a company back
the regime are used across the u.s. the
u.s. now has over 850,000 confirmed
cases and states one after another plan
to reopen the latest Oklahoma and
Montana but in some areas there's
controversy over how and when to do it
and Deedee's Molina why Scott brings us
the story Oklahoma in Montana are among
the latest to lift stay-at-home orders
some Oklahoma businesses are restarting
tomorrow while Montana has its sights
set on Monday Main Street and retail
businesses can reopen their doors but
that doesn't mean that things should be
just like they were before the virus the
states are joining at least five others
in the South which are already
coordinating and plan to lift
restrictions by the end of the month but
in some places controversy is brewing
over the decisions Michigan stay at home
order has been extended Michigan errs
will still need to stay home unless
they're doing things that are explicitly
permitted by the order but some
residents have expressed frustration in
our protesting the shutdown likewise a
sheriff in Washington opposes the
governor's decision for a longer
shutdown the sheriff wrote a letter
calling it a constitutional rights
violation and says he won't enforce it
nearby California residents are also
protesting to stay at home ordered like
here in Los Angeles cars honk to express
their discomfort with the lockdown
California saw its deadliest day
yesterday there was some positive news
despite those numbers he's referring to
hospitalizations a number of ICU
patients slightly dropping and in a town
near Silicon Valley officials have
started testing all residents for the
CCP virus and antibodies testing is a
top priority for states reopening as the
Trump administration is ramping up
contact tracing in hopes of safely
reopening the economy Melina Weis cup
and TV news
New York's governor said yesterday he's
working on a joint program with
Connecticut and New Jersey to trace
people who could have been exposed to
the virus and California is working to
train thousands of state workers to
contact trace in their state doctors in
new
notice that many patients with the virus
are having strokes and looking deeper
they are alarmed to find that patients
blood also thins and clots doctors in
New York found something troubling in
ICU patients infected with the virus
many of them were having strokes and
upon treating them doctors were struck
to find blood clots dr. marcoh said he
noticed this as cases started to take
off in New York I was discussing with
the president the hospital how
procoagulant this experience was and he
immediately said you have to talk with
dr. poore because he's been noticing the
same things in the law his colleague dr.
poore found that blood was not
circulating freely through the lungs of
his patients on ventilators that night a
kidney doctor told him that dialysis
catheters were often getting blocked
with clots so they started to give
patients high doses of blood thinners
even before blood clots were detected
and together we discussed you know which
patients would most likely benefit from
this and most importantly these drugs
are very dangerous it can cause
catastrophic bleeding blood thinners
have become a part of the hospital's
toolbox but dr. McCoy said they're still
learning about the virus Harvard
University says it will refuse the 9
million dollars in relief funds provided
by the cares Act this decision comes
after president Trump demanded the
university pay the money back saying the
institution is already well endowed
Harvard has announced the university
will not accept the nine million dollars
in relief funds allotted to it by the
cares Act on Tuesday President Trump
demanded the university pay the money
back but Harvard declined to do so amid
mounting pressure from the president and
several lawmakers Harvard decided to
decline the funding the University
stated the attention it was getting
surrounding the money was not worth the
relief it was designed to provide
president Trump stated on Tuesday he
didn't like that Harvard was to receive
relief money when the institution has
about a forty billion dollar endowment
or investment fund the president said
the relief money is meant to help
workers instead I don't like it this is
meant for workers this isn't meant for
one of the riches
institutions not only far beyond schools
in the world they got to pay it back I
wanted to pay it back
Harvard had received the relief payment
from the Department of Education not
from the Paycheck protection program
administered through the Small Business
Administration many senators including
Ted Cruz Josh Holley and Rick Scott have
criticized using taxpayer money to bail
out the University Donald Trump jr. also
disagrees with the allocation in a
Twitter post he cited the arrests of
Harvard professor Charles Lieber who
allegedly failed to disclose research
funding from the Chinese Communist Party
as evidence Harvard should not receive
the funding in a statement on Wednesday
education secretary Betsy DeVos said it
is common sense that wealthy
institutions that do not primarily serve
low-income students should not get
additional taxpayer funds Harvard noted
that the Department of Education decides
how to reallocate the funds but asked to
give special consideration to struggling
institutions in Massachusetts Mexico and
the US I an agreement to reopen their
supply chain after virus restrictions
dampened it India puts restrictions on
Chinese investment and more in business
and economic news over 4.4 million
Americans applied for unemployment
benefits last week those receiving
unemployment benefits were almost at 16
million the week before that total
jobless claims for the past five weeks
reached 26 million but the pace of
layoffs is apparently lessening 43
states saw less jobless claims the
Mexican president said he expects an
agreement that will allow US Mexico
industrial supply chains to begin
operating normally again operating
restrictions on businesses designated
non-essential have caused disruptions to
supply chains Mexico has only just
entered its highest phase of alert
because of growing CCP virus cases
India's plans to screen foreign direct
investments from neighboring countries
has Chinese firms concerned they fear it
will delay deals in one of Asia's most
lucrative investment markets the tougher
rules were not a surprise other
countries are also on guard against fire
sales of corporate assets during the
pandemic
two pet cats have been confirmed to have
the virus
the CDC made the announcement Wednesday
it's the first time the virus has been
found in domestic animals in the u.s.
the cats were from different areas of
New York State and both were taken to
vets because they had mild respiratory
illness the first cat came from a
household in which none of the residents
had any symptoms
the second cat's owner was later
diagnosed with the virus but another cat
in the same household appeared to show
no signs of infection both cats are
expected to make a full recovery and
German Chancellor Angela Merkel warned
her citizens not to relax social
distancing measures saying the virus is
far from over German Chancellor Angela
Merkel said on Thursday that we are not
living in the final phase of the
pandemic she said we're still at the
beginning and have to act accordingly
just yesterday the European country gave
a green light to human trials of the
potential CCCP virus vaccines the trial
is only the force in the world of a
vaccine targeting the virus and
according to UK's top medical officer a
vaccine is needed in order to ease
restrictions on the island country he
said the measures are likely to be
needed even after this year ends
meanwhile the government is under fire
for allegedly failing to fully explain
partial death data from providing only
limited testing and for a lack of
equipment for hospitals and in a
finished supermarket doors without door
handles were tested earlier this week
the shape of the handle allows the door
to be opened with an arm instead of a
hand its goal is to prevent the spread
of microbes through door handles Norway
could see its biggest decline in
mortgage demand since the 2008 financial
crisis the decline is caused by the
effects of the virus outbreak and now to
Australia where the nation's Prime
Minister today threw his support behind
an independent probe into the pandemic
he says all member nations of the w-h-o
should support a review and be obliged
to participate in it Australian leader
Scott Morrison said on Thursday that all
member nations of the w-h-o should
support an independent review into the
corona virus pandemic
origins and spread it's a move that
could put further strain on ties with
China we will need an independent
inquiry that looks at what has occurred
here so we can learn the lessons
Australia has become one of Beijing's
most forceful critics over the handling
of the spread of the coronavirus Beijing
has called these efforts us-led
propaganda against China but Morrison
defended calls for the inquiry as
earnest in nature our purpose here is
just pretty simple we'd like the world
to be safer when it comes to viruses it
seems like a pretty honest ambition that
I'm sure most people in the world would
agree with so I'd be great if we could
achieve that and that's the spirit in
which we're pursuing this and I would
certainly hope that any other nation be
China or anyone else would would share
that objective Australia's call for
global action comes as it has seen
success in slowing the coronavirus with
around six thousand six hundred cases of
infection and less than 80 deaths
Morrison says Australia will push for
the inquiry during the w-h-o Assembly on
May 17th and now to Germany in this
economic crisis it's seeking to protect
its industry from unwanted takeovers
including from China today it's
Parliament discussed a new bill Aunt
Edie's Germany correspondent Christiane
Watson has the story on Thursday
Germany's Parliament the Bundestag
discussed a reform to its foreign direct
investment rules the government wants to
make it harder for investors outside the
European Union to acquire companies
active in critical infrastructures and
critical technologies market releasing
the fact that we are a market economy
does not mean that we never mean
anything when it comes to risks and
threats to our vital national economic
health and other interests ansan second
interesting hundred the new rules would
mean all investments of 10% or more are
pending until clearance is granted and
the threshold for a mandatory government
review would be lowered from actual
danger to likely detriment to public
order or security German industry
associations and some opposition parties
criticized the new rules as
protectionism he opens up Sutra seal us
off here won't help us in your
discussion newly added to mandatory
approval our company's active in
critical technologies such as artificial
intelligence robotics semiconductors
biotechnology and quantum technology
some observers see this as a direct
swipe at the CCP it's natan China 2025
program seeks global domination exactly
these fields and some are concerned
China could use the current crisis to go
on a shopping spree in Europe under the
old rules the German government
unsuccessfully tried to stop the
takeover of German industrial robot
maker cuca to a Chinese investor four
years ago the bill is likely to pass
reporting by Christian Watson NTD News
Berlin here at China InFocus we dedicate
ourselves to bringing you truthful
unbiased reporting don't forget to
subscribe for the latest updates and see
you tomorrow
[Music]